Title: Second-Draft-Kdrama-Reviews  
Author:

Nice to Not Meet You (얄미운 사랑): Review (contains spoilers!)

QUICK TAKES

1. show has great leads, some truly excellent screwball comedy, it delivers fun, affectionate satire on show business and the tabloid-reporting culture that feeds on it, plus a nice side story about uncovering corporate/political corruption.

* The leads Lee Jung-jae and Lim Ji-yeon both depict unusual, very well-conceived characters, beautifully-performed. They’re wonderfully dynamic performers, always alive and interesting and both very funny and very good at the screwball aspects — among the rarest, hardest things to do well, because it takes serious acting chops combined with perfect timing and, hardest of all, a very light touch. They have to convince us that their characters and stakes are real, while making us laugh as they slip undignifiedly on a banana peel. These actors are also both just super watchable and likable here, with strong, delightful chemistry. 

* The story is screwball-zany but nicely constructed and executed in many parts, such that it all works – at least for the first half. It establishes a sense of real stakes at the start, and that sticks even if the plot moves far off from that starting point. It feels plausible even with the screwball antics, which is always the key, and it has been very fun to watch. 

* Choi Gwi-hwa as LJJ’s manager and Jeon Seung-woo as the drama director also perform their roles so finely, feeling like whole people, energetic and interesting to follow, both with great voice work, comic timing, and oddball specificity — they’re absolute delights to watch. CGH and LJJ have such a good chemistry, and then JSW and LJJ have maybe an even funnier vibe. 

* We also love Jin Ho-eun’s sweet-bro, funny, totally convincing presence as the female lead’s younger brother, and Na Young-hee’s fun-whiny whirlwind presence as the male lead’s mother, and Kim Ji-hoon, who is charming and has lovely comic presence, though he’s a little underused here and not given enough back story or meat to make the dramatic aspect of his storyline quite work.

* The flaws: 
    * in the second half of the series, in particular, there are some less skillful narrative choices: 
        * several long stretches where the sequence of scenes doesn’t build up interesting tension and isn’t as artfully done as previously; 
        * a handful of too-long scenes that are supposed to be snappy and funny, but instead are written/directed/edited (?) too slowly; 
        * the clunky structure of the big confession and reveal (Ep’s 11-12) where there’s suddenly way more telling instead of showing
    * the serious journalism story to uncover corruption could have more meat on the bone and be given more space


REVIEW

The show is ongoing as I write, and, based on the viewership numbers listed on its Wikipedia page, doesn’t seem to be getting the appreciation and love I think it should! 

A premise of this site is that comedy is a great art form, and maybe the most difficult to do well. I write reviews to honor excellent comedy performances, writing, and directing. 

…And so far, I find the comedic performances of the two leads, Lee Jung-jae and Lim Ji-yeon, extremely good. The tight writing, and well-paced, fun directing and editing shape and frame the performances for best effect, at least for the first half.

The show moves along at a pleasant tempo for the most part, winding along from character- and language-based humor to slapstick to whole screwball scenes while still including lots of quite skillful exposition and storytelling. At the same time, it avoids the usual pitfalls of romances or comedies, like scenes designed to be comic that are executed without clear rhythm (or just too slowly) to actually elicit laughter. Or the common ultra-slow pacing of romance scenes or scenes that are supposed to foreshadow romance. This holds even when NNTMY does deploy the most beloved k-tropes of the genre — e.g. when the reporter Wi Jeong-sin (WJS) is hiding in the bathroom of the actor Lim Hyun-joon’s (LHJ) hospital room, he forces the bathroom door open, and she falls out on top of him. No minutes-long shocked stares into each others’ faces as the show’s romantic soundtrack blares (thank goodness). 

The show’s gags are beautifully played and timed for laughs and they work — we’ve been laughing out loud pretty continuously. 

The genius of the show, in particular, is how they’ve managed to build real, interesting people out of these screwball characters. This is very fun, very funny writing, directing, and most of all acting, while also having some real stakes, being grounded enough to feel like it’s about real people, to actually matter. We enjoy spending time with these guys. 

The main storyline and its comedy
The two leads in particular are outstanding screwball performers and at the same time utterly convincing in their portrayals of their characters — and this feels like what gives the show an exceptional quality. By starting the show deep into LHJ’s failed-actor life, with detail that’s finely-grained and not heavy-handed (see the well-worn feeling of the print shop they’re working at, his sweet dopey humor that the other employees roll their eyes at, the miserable run-in with his ex-girlfriend which he might have ambivalently hoped for, but definitely regrets afterward, the intense irritation of customer service with the annoying, entitled student-director)…. This establishes him as complex and genuinely sympathetic: we see him as grounded, hardworking, sweet and kind in the face of the drunk-sad reporter who crawled into his car and accidentally accused him of kidnapping her; he’s unsuccessful, yet still in touch with his own sense of dignity and having seemed to accept his losses, still able dive into and get fired up by a great script, and ultimately unable to resist the opportunity to act again even if just in a student film. And, of course, by the end of the first episode, we see how this has spun out to earn him massive, unexpected success. 

It’s a very nice screwball-style twist of absurdity that follows the miserable experience he has on the crime-action film set, being told by the student writer-director that he’s not actually very good, being driven past his limits and age physically, swearing by the end never to work with him again—only to have to reverse course immediately, as the film becomes a hit and then a hit TV show. 

By episode 5 or so, we asked ourselves for a minute: is the main character too much of a dope? Have they lost track of his sympathetic, grounded qualities which they established in the first episode?

LHJ, once he’s super successful, now has the insecurity we could have expected when he was unsuccessful. But this actually makes more sense: he’d seemed to kind of accept his situation before, but now, along with success, is much more pressure and anxiety, acute loneliness, and competition. So he’s become much whinier, a difficult diva who relies on his manager and his AI-assistant for every little thing. He’s ultra-dopey now, but still a kind of wounded sweetheart underneath, which we see as he breaks down at the public mentions of his mother. He’s petty and complaining but with a core of real feeling and human decency, willing to break the glass door from the terrace into the hospital in that one key moment, to get our bleeding post-op reporter into the ER. And willing to start shaping his agency (e.g. signing the older sex-pest actor) to solve WJS’s problems… And it’s very, very funny and endearing. 

Lee Jung-jae
This has to be hugely due to the delightful, dynamic acting of Lee Jung-jae, such a skilled comic presence, able to contain the multitudes of this character’s goofball silliness together with his panic attacks, his woundedness, and his earnest sympathy. Every moment of him onscreen tends to be interesting—a constantly moving, living, thinking performance that can shift from funny to touching to slapstick to sweet to very attractive, authentically and seamlessly. Damn, he’s good. I mean, he’s a superstar, so yeah. The Teenager says he’s excellent in Squidgame, and I found him very compelling in the super serious Chief of Staff. But having comic chops on this level—this is great artist stuff. In much of this show, he’s up there with my beloved faves from American screwball, like James Cagney and Ray Milland. 

Lim Ji-yeon
She is so entirely, thoroughly worthy a foil to LJJ’s dopey-but-sweet, secretly-kind-of-brave-and-good diva, and she and her character really provide an excellent counterweight: capable, determined, gives zero fucks, where LHJ is overanxious about what everyone thinks. But to leaven this kick-ass persona with delightful humor, she’s always wearing these baggy outfits and frumpy shoes that soften the sharp edges of her personality. Even her walk conveys a hilarious frumpiness and indifference, but most of all it’s the expression in her face — in contrast to LJJ, she’s minimal but so readable, from her glare to the moments when she becomes a Kang Pil-gu superfan to the just perceptible softening and evolution of her face and feelings as she watches him give the opening pitch at the baseball game. That long shot of her is a great example, but she’s also just so dynamic and compelling every moment she’s onscreen. As an actress, LJY brings an utterly convincing presence, an intensity that keeps you fully engaged in her but doesn’t exhaust at all.  We especially love seeing a female character depicted without reference to beauty products or procedures, who is all natural, who makes zero effort to be attractive – the clothes and shoes are a comic delight, and because she moves with a kind of clarity of feeling and intention, whether she’s angry or undecided, on her way somewhere definite or just thinking. 

She’s all focus: cares almost exclusively about her profession, with just a little left over to care about her brother, then increasingly diverting her intensity toward her fandom of LHJ and his character, fiction-within-a-fiction detective Kang Pil-gu. It’s a pleasure to see a driven, capable character like this who’s quick to anger and righteous in a kind of spiky way — the young tabloid reporter in Healer or the lawyer lead in Love to Hate You also hit some of these notes. And her style of being driven and capable counteracts and complements LHJ’s dopiness and insecurity in a way that the show plays with continually — with her growing fandom and his repeated moments of protecting her, then reversing those roles naturally, allowing the characters to expand, switch roles back and forth, and showing how the stakes are evolving.      

Why don’t more people see what an achievement all this is?
A lot of shows are billed as comedies, but don’t have the timing, pacing, or freshness I hope for from the genre. When they’re good, they actually provoke laughter. More than anything, by setting up and then subverting expectations, and doing it precisely, according to an almost musical rhythm. Some people will want the rhythm a little faster, some a little slower, but a lot of directors or editors just don’t seem to have any sense of rhythm. Then, often writers aren’t actually good at subverting expectations or generating freshness. And of course, it’s incredibly hard to perform comedy! There’s a reason successful stand-up comics spend years practicing their sets at small venues, refining and refining their material, their timing, their physical and vocal performance. Actors don’t have that chance while shooting a show, right? They have to figure out what the maximally comic performance is and deliver it successfully, fast, with no audience reaction except maybe some read-throughs, some coaching, the production crew. And it has to be true to their character, too. They need to convey whole people, the comedy has to be consistent with who they are, with the overall stakes of their lives as well as the immediate stakes of the scene. This strikes me as an extraordinarily difficult challenge. 

I hope the comedy fans out there will see this show and enjoy these outstanding performances and the writing and directing that’s enabled them. If not on its first run then eventually on Amazon etc. They deserve a lot of love for creating something so good.